feat(connectors): add Kafka inbound connector docs (#2107)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/kafka-inbound.md

Reviewer: I think the following aspects are also worth mentioning in the Appendix/FAQ:
- How is the message payload deserialized?
- What happens when the connector throws an exception?

---
id: kafka-inbound
title: Kafka Consumer Connector
sidebar_label: Kafka Consumer Connector
description: "The Kafka Consumer Connector allows you to connect your BPMN service with Kafka. Learn how to create a Kafka Consumer Connector and make it executable."
---

The **Kafka Consumer Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/).

## Prerequisites

To use the **Kafka Consumer Connector**, you need to have a Kafka instance with configured bootstrap server.
It is highly recommended not to expose your sensitive data as plain text, but rather use Camunda secrets. Follow our documentation on [managing secrets](/components/console/manage-clusters/manage-secrets.md) to learn more.

## Create a Kafka Consumer Connector task

1. Start building your BPMN diagram with a **Start Event** building block.
2. Change its template to a Kafka Consumer.
3. Fill in all required properties.
4. Complete your BPMN diagram.
5. Deploy the diagram to activate the Kafka consumer.

> ## Make your Kafka Consumer Connector for consuming messages executable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Make your Kafka Consumer Connector executable
```

![Kafka Inbound Filled](../img/connectors-kafka-inbound-filled.png)

> To make your **Kafka Consumer Connector** for publishing messages executable, take the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make your **Kafka Consumer Connector** executable, take the following steps:
```

---
id: kafka-inbound
title: Kafka Consumer Connector
sidebar_label: Kafka Consumer Connector
description: "The Kafka Consumer Connector allows you to connect your BPMN service with Kafka. Learn how to create a Kafka Consumer Connector and make it executable."
---

> The **Kafka Consumer Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/).

Reviewer 2: I would add a few details here -- for example, inbound/outbound, and what you could achieve by connecting your BPMN service with Kafka. It may seem obvious to the user, but it does provide a clear sense of purpose.

> The **Kafka Consumer Connector** allows you to connect your BPMN service with [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **Kafka Consumer Connector** allows you to consume messages by subscribing to [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/) topics and map them your BPMN processes as start or intermediate events.
```

## Prerequisites

To use the **Kafka Consumer Connector**, you need to have a Kafka instance with configured bootstrap server.
It is highly recommended not to expose your sensitive data as plain text, but rather use Camunda secrets. Follow our documentation on [managing secrets](/components/console/manage-clusters/manage-secrets.md) to learn more.

## Create a Kafka Consumer Connector task

> 1. Start building your BPMN diagram with a **Start Event** building block.

Reviewer 4: @sbuettner  i would add here, that we are also supporting intermediate events

> 2. Change its template to a Kafka Consumer.

Reviewer 2: I may explain how to do this -- do I click somewhere specific in the UI?

Reviewer 4: @sbuettner what do you think? From my point of view, that is nothing specific for Kafka

Reviewer 3: @christinaausley Should we maybe have a dedicated page on how to user inbound connectors? It seems tedious to describe the steps for each and every connector.

Reviewer 3: Lets improve this in the future.

> 1. Start building your BPMN diagram with a **Start Event** building block.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add a  **Start Event** or  an **Intermediate Event** to your BPMN diagram to get started.
```

> 3. Fill in all required properties.

Reviewer 3: @christinaausley Again, this is not Kafka specific. Should we extract a general "How to add an inbound connector to a process?" section?

> 3. Fill in all required properties.

Reviewer 3: >  I always say it is better to overdocument and reference additional content where necessary, but if we aren't receiving much confusion here, we can always wait on it and keep an eye on usage.

Ok, maybe we need to have some kind of reusable template that we can include as it will be always the same for every inbound connector.

4. Complete your BPMN diagram.

> 5. Deploy the diagram to activate the Kafka consumer.

Reviewer 2: Again I would likely say what UI elements to click here to do this.

Reviewer 3: @christinaausley Do you consider this kafka specific as well?

Reviewer 3: I think its ok for now. I assume that customer by now know how to deploy a process.
